# 2.15R.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.15R.
- Added a tweak to disable urination from fear-related effects.
- Added a tweak to add a chance of generating new experimental Nefia layouts, courtesy of @JianmengYu. 
- Added "Use Shift Core" custom AI action.
- Added a "Custom AI" option to the wizard menu.

## Changed
- Custom AI can now be used by non-ally NPCs.
- Custom AI will now be saved to pet arena teams in `.pet` files and applied when the team is loaded for battling.
- Blending will now inform the player if their inventory is full when a stacked ingredient is about to be separated.

## Fixed
- Fixed asking for potion plugs bringing up the wrong menu.
- Fixed Hydro Fang being missing from the Custom AI skill list.

# 2.14.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.14.
- Added English translations for some item descriptions (potions, drinks, music disc).
- Added a message displaying how much gold pets receive when they enact prostitution.
- Added a new console command for taking a screenshot of the entire map (`save_map_image`).
- Added a tweak to revert changes to the experience formula after Elona+ 2.13. 
  + Addresses "increased experience multipliers when defeating enemies above the player character's (PC) level".
  + Toggling this also reverts the change to taxation coming into effect after New Year's.
- Ported omake's autopickup feature.
  + Enable this feature in the `EX Setting 1` subsection of the settings menu.
  + Press <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Backspace</kbd> while in-game to create or reload the current autopickup settings file.
  + Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Backspace</kbd> to open the currently loaded autopickup settings file in your text editor.
  + Press <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>Backspace</kbd> to quickly toggle autopickup on and off.
  + A detailed tutorial is included in the autogenerated settings file.

## Fixed
- Fixed the incorrect sprite being used for the laser bazooka attack animation.
- Fixed the effect of Element Eyes not being applied to Variable Breath when it was used by custom AI.
- Fixed crashes with high-quality item shadows and DPI scaling. Be sure to copy the included `elona.dll` to your install directory to apply the fix, overwriting the existing file.
- Fixed the NPC name changes for pet evolution and the werewolf game for some character types.

Thanks to @Regaccio and @JianmengYu for contributing.

# 2.13.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.13.

## Fixed
- Fixed being unable to execute undead fusion.

# 2.12.1.1

## Added
- Added translations for the rest of Act 3's story cutscenes. (#100)

## Changed
- Reworked parts of the story cutscenes to follow the Japanese translation more closely. (#100)

## Fixed
- Fixed the SP cost of Cooking and Fishing. (#106)
- Fixed a crash caused by urination from fear. (#102, #105)
- Fixed the display of spell power in menus. (#87, #99)

Thanks to @AHairyGameDev and @air1068 for contributing.

# 2.12.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.12.

# 2.11.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.11.
- Added a tweak for increasing the maximum number of arena attempts per day. (#89)
- Added a tweak for disabling the spell overcast warning. (#89)
- Added a tweak for increasing the variety of hireable home servants. (#92)
- Added a tweak for increasing the drinking/brawling chance during Party Time! quests. (#96)
- Added a tweak for disabling stamina loss when melee attacking or casting spells.

## Changed
- Allow spawning Little Sisters by killing Big Daddies with Empathy/persuasion skills. (#88)

## Fixed
- Fixed cargo food items not applying thirst reduction.

Thanks to @EnragedWaters for contributing.

# 2.10.1.1

Thanks to DiscoWitch for fixing these issues.

## Fixed
- Fixed status effects not applying.
- Fixed a crash that occurs when fishing.
- Fixed the display of the Super Accel buff in the profile.

# 2.10.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.10.
- Added a tweak that makes summoned monsters give skill/spell experience. (#66)
- Added a tweak for skipping the confirmation when spending platinum on skill training.
- Added a tweak for auto-dropping empty chests after opening them. (#50)
- Added a tweak for using stairs in your home without depleting stamina. (#43)

## Changed
- Make Oblivion Palace a returnable location in wizard mode. (#40)

## Fixed
- Fixed analysis gauge logic applying to the player. (#53)
- Fixed the behavior of the "Prevent home stayers from moving" tweak. (#52)
- Fixed some incorrect results of using crop management tools. (#67)
- Fixed some incorrect pronouns/grammar being displayed in the feats and buffs menus. (#64)
- Fixed enchantment magnitude being displayed in the feats menu details. (#65)
- Fixed shop names being incorrectly displayed when changing shop types. (#40)
- Fixed a few typos and translation errors. (#40)
- Fixed a crash when trying to move a hostile creature in your home. (#40)

# 2.09.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.09.

## Fixed
- Fixed elemental damage causing no status effects. (#78)

# 2.08.2.0

# Added
- Added a new "Do Nothing" custom AI action. (#68)

# Changed
- Hydro Fang now causes wet. (#69)
- Remove the release-build dependency on `hsplua.dll`. It can be enabled again with a compiler define.

# Fixed
- Fixed the subject for the "bored" town citizen dialog lines being incorrect. (#60)
- Fixed the displayed level of duel opponents being incorrect. (#55)
- Fixed some elemental damage not causing status effects. (#63)
- Fixed a couple of AI action lists for some characters being incorrect. (#76)
- Fixed NPC actions interrupting the player's actions. (#76)
- Fixed some minor typos. (#73, #74)
- Fixed crashing when anorexia status becomes too high. (#72)
- Fixed enchantment level not displaying for the enchantments added in 2.08. (#70)
- Fixed the enchantments addable to living weapons being different from stock Plus. (#62)

# 2.08.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.08.
- You can now see tiles that are cut off at the top of the screen due to the selected screen resolution. Please set the `showTopTileCutoff.` option to `"1"` in `config.txt` to enable this feature.

## Changed
- The "Show enchant strength" tweak can now optionally be used to display the enchant power of all enchantments, not just those with a declared power level in the vanilla UI. This is helpful for artifact fusion. (#46)
- Allow the "Display Pickpocket shortcut" tweak to work inside Party Time! quests. (#57)

## Fixed
- Fixed the town travelling message being displayed in English when the language is Japanese. (#49)
- Fixed the DESTINY conditions not being tracked if the "Disable DESTINY" tweak is active. (#44)
- Fixed the hit chance displayed by the Data Scan buff always showing 0 if the language is English. (#54)
- Fixed the "flying bane" enchantment being generated on gloves instead of ranged weapons. (#59)

# 2.07.2.0

## Added
- You can now rename the gender you select during character creation.

## Changed
- Display the actual danger level for Fort of Chaos nefia.
- Summon Spirit now scales with the spell's level and spawns neutral creatures that attack enemies.
- Revert the translations for the extra genders to that of stock Plus.
- The `sex` wish now allows you to choose your new gender from the list available during character creation.

## Fixed
- Fixed the limits on speed bonuses from Leold during the main story not being correct.
- Fixed a few details of certain blending recipes, and reverted Custom-G's changes to them.
- Applied the change to the shortcut text display for the inventory window from Elona+ 1.995.
- Fixed not being able to sound the horn when driving a truck.
- Fixed roads being removed when building something over them using a deed.
- Fixed spell bonuses being incorrectly labeled as skill bonuses in the journal.
- Fixed the layout of the journal records so they don't overflow the page.
- Fixed player skill bonuses on level up not being tracked in the journal.
- Fixed Big Brushes and Nyoi Mimikaki being randomly generated.
- Fixed a crash when offering livestock with Impress greater than 150 to your god.
- Fixed auto aim cheetahs not having their special ammo action.
- Fixed the random generation of items added in later Plus versions.
- Fixed more crashes due to OS-level DPI scaling.

# 2.07.1.2

## Changed
- Limit the combinations of resolution and DPI scaling in the options menu so that fullscreen always works.
- Prevent crashes from invalid resolutions by checking if the maximum display size is exceeded on startup.

# 2.07.1.1

## Changed
- Don't show damage popups for passive stamina regeneration from thirst.

## Fixed
- Fixed a crash when talking to a bartender with thirst enabled.
- Fixed a rendering glitch with the Nefia Fever clock.
- Fixed more issues with screen resolutions and fullscreen/crashing.
- Fixed certain world map area entrances being generated with grass instead of snow. To apply the fix to existing saves, open the console with F12 and type the command `cgx207mapfix`.
- Fixed maps with multiple door types changing doors to the wrong tile when opening/closing them.
- Fixed a small typo in the Japanese language after travelling between towns.

# 2.07.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.07.
- Added new custom tweaks to disable several changes from Custom-G: thirst, Curtain Call, chain attacks, and sleep prevention from coffee/tobacco.
- Added an option in `config.txt` for showing the FPS (`showFps.`).

## Changed
- Existing CGX saves will now have the previously mentioned Custom-G changes disabled by default. Please use the Tweaks menu from the in-game Escape menu to enable them again.
- Don't disable scrolling if the player has a tag team partner.
- Retrieve the list of valid screen resolutions from the OS instead of hardcoding them.
- Limit the DPI scaling option to increments of 0.5 only.

## Fixed
- Fixed collect yield option in farms not resetting plant status. (Thanks, @Mirarara!)
- Fixed a crash when claiming YacaPoint rewards.
- Fixed various incorrect item descriptions in Japanese.
- Fixed various issues when trying to use screen resolutions that are not a multiple of 4 and esoteric DPI scaling amounts.

# 2.06fix.2.0

## Added
- Translated all untranslated text except cutscenes, and improved upon Custom-G's machine translations.
- Restored all of Elona's original network code that was removed in Elona+.
- Added marriage chat messages from the work-in-progress Elona source code.
- Added back the option to vote on an alias when using the voting box.
- Added HiDPI scaling and smoothing options, accessible from the Screen & Sound section of the options menu.
- Added a patched version of `elochat.exe` that can be configured to use a different server.
- Added an option to show the actual numbers for class/race stats during character creation (`charamake_preciseStats.`).
- Added a tweak for quickly reloading the last save upon death.
- Added a tweak to revert changes to the experience formula after Elona+ 1.90.
- Added a tweak to disable study day bonus skill experience.
- Added a tweak to disable the DESTINY feature and restore the chances of finding godly equipment.

## Changed
- Enable the use of network features by default.
- Use `elochat.yeek.agency` as the default chat server.
- Make the codebase compatible with HSP 3.6. (Thanks, @Mirarara!)
- Show the Life, Mana and Speed, and body parts of classes/races during character creation.
- Don't apply "Prevent home stayers from moving" to special NPCs like Lomias and Larnneire.

## Fixed
- Fixed Yacatect's Bank not working on use. (Thanks, @Mirarara!)
- Fixed Memory Converters not working on use.
- Fixed potion puddles not spawning when throwing potions.

# 2.06fix.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.06fix.

# 2.06.1.0

## Added
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.06.
- Added "Disable cicada noises" custom tweak.

## Fixed
- Fixed tables not having the manuscript writing item effect.
- Fixed spell stock conversion by using tables causing spells to be casted instead.
- Fixed planted seeds not showing the correct text when walked over.
- Fixed a crash caused by casting Meteor.
- Fixed oblivion rude beasts being unable to cast Summon Chaos (as stated in the Elona+ changelog).

# 2.05.1.1

## Added 
- Added back the "special drink" dialog option for bartenders.

## Fixed
- Corrected the buff duration of Killing Dance to be 13 turns instead of 44.
- Fixed character images not being set on cards spawned by opening card packs.
- Fixed a crash that occurred when using the deck.
- Fixed a bug causing PCC eyes to be set incorrectly.
- Fixed an issue causing the Japanese description for Harvest Time quests to become blank.
- Fixed the popup for expiring buffs not appearing or being incorrect.
- Fixed the pet arena win count not incrementing.

# 2.05.1.0

## Added 
- Ported all changes from Elona+ 2.05, using Elona+ Custom-G 1.90.2.4 as a base.
- Ported omake overhaul modify's damage popup feature, configurable in the options menu.
- Added "Allow running in world map" custom tweak.
- Added a limited Lua console for debugging purposes.

## Changed
- Uncap the screen resolution limit.
- Center the text that's shown during cutscenes.
- Allow usage of Suspicious Hand if the target is sandbagged and "Sandbag Training" is enabled.

## Removed
- Removed the 100 skill point/platinum cap.
- Removed the NPC/card/item externalize feature.

## Fixed
- Fixed a bug causing Jaldabaoth's wing animation to glitch.
- Fixed a bug causing certain portraits to be cut off when running at 800x600 resolution.
